README.md, before:

# Flipkart-Clone-DevSecops- SonarQube EKS-Docker Scout-OWASP ZAP-Gitops- ( Agro cd ) Hard-Level-project


## For more projects, check out  
[https://harishnshetty.github.io/projects.html](https://harishnshetty.github.io/projects.html)

[![Video Tutorial](https://github.com/harishnshetty/image-data-project/blob/d13e0ad9f2fc91499853cc8624b3c2d50f8f2e88/flipkart1.jpg)](https://youtu.be/KwKtMHBQXk4)


## Flipkart Clone Sample Image

[![Video Tutorial](https://github.com/harishnshetty/image-data-project/blob/d13e0ad9f2fc91499853cc8624b3c2d50f8f2e88/flipkart2.jpg)](https://youtu.be/KwKtMHBQXk4)

## Jenkins Setup
- Instance Type :- c5.xlarge  [4 Cpu 8Gb Ram ] 
- 30 GB EBS
- This guide assumes an Ubuntu/Debian-like environment and sudo privileges.

---

## Ports to Enable in Security Group

- Jenkins Security Group

| Service         | Port  |
|-----------------|-------|
| HTTP            | 80    |
| HTTPS           | 443   |
| SSH             | 22    | 
| Jenkins         |       |
| SonarQube       |       |


## System Update & Common Packages

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y

# Common tools
sudo apt install -y bash-completion wget git zip unzip curl jq net-tools build-essential ca-certificates apt-transport-https gnupg fontconfig
```
Reload bash completion if needed:
```bash
source /etc/bash_completion
```

**Install latest Git:**
```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:git-core/ppa
sudo apt update
sudo apt install git -y
```

---

## Java

Install OpenJDK (choose 17 or 21 depending on your needs):

```bash
# OpenJDK 17
sudo apt install -y openjdk-17-jdk

# OR OpenJDK 21
sudo apt install -y openjdk-21-jdk
```
Verify:
```bash
java --version
```

---

## Jenkins

Official docs: https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/installing/linux/

```bash
sudo wget -O /etc/apt/keyrings/jenkins-keyring.asc \
  https://pkg.jenkins.io/debian-stable/jenkins.io-2023.key
echo "deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/jenkins-keyring.asc]" \
  https://pkg.jenkins.io/debian-stable binary/ | sudo tee \
  /etc/apt/sources.list.d/jenkins.list > /dev/null

sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y jenkins
sudo systemctl enable --now jenkins
sudo systemctl start jenkins
sudo systemctl status jenkins
```
Initial admin password:
```bash
sudo cat /var/lib/jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword
```
Then open: http://your-server-ip:8080

**Note:** Jenkins requires a compatible Java runtime. Check the Jenkins documentation for supported Java versions.

---

## Docker

Official docs: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/

```bash
# Add Docker's official GPG key:
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ca-certificates curl
sudo install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings
sudo curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc
sudo chmod a+r /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc

# Add the repository to Apt sources:
echo \
  "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
  $(. /etc/os-release && echo "${UBUNTU_CODENAME:-$VERSION_CODENAME}") stable" | \
  sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null
sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install -y docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin

# Add user to docker group (log out / in or newgrp to apply)
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
newgrp docker
docker ps
```
--- 
Official docs: https://docs.docker.com/scout/install/


```bash
mkdir -p ~/.docker/cli-plugins
```
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/docker/scout-cli/main/install.sh -o install-scout.sh
sh install-scout.sh
```
```bash
sudo cp ~/.docker/cli-plugins/docker-scout /usr/local/bin/docker-scout
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-scout
```

If Jenkins needs Docker access:
```bash
sudo usermod -aG docker jenkins
sudo systemctl restart jenkins
```
Check Docker status:
```bash
sudo systemctl status docker
```

## Jenkins Plugins to Install

- Eclipse Temurin installer Plugin
- Email Extension Plugin
- OWASP Dependency-Check Plugin
- Pipeline: Stage View Plugin
- SonarQube Scanner for Jenkins
- Nodejs
- Pipeline Utility Steps
- Slack Notification
- Amazon Web Services SDK :: All
- Amazon ECR
- Pipeline: AWS Steps
- Docker Pipeline
- CloudBees Docker Build and Publish

---
## SonarQube Docker Container Run for Analysis

sonarqube:25.10.0.114319-community

```bash
docker run -d --name sonarqube \
  -p 9000:9000 \
  -v sonarqube_data:/opt/sonarqube/data \
  -v sonarqube_logs:/opt/sonarqube/logs \
  -v sonarqube_extensions:/opt/sonarqube/extensions \
  sonarqube:25.9.0.112764-community
```
---



## Create the AWS Normal Account

- IAM account [jenkins]
- Policy [AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryFullAccess]
- Create the Security credentials.  [note it down one of the notepad]


## Create the Slack Account

- Create the Workspace
- Create the Channel
- Go to the Slack Markerplace [ Select the Jenkins CI ]
- Select the Channel Name
- Copy the Token
---


---

## Jenkins Credentials to Store

| Purpose       | ID            | Type          | Notes                               |
|---------------|---------------|---------------|-------------------------------------|
| Email         | mail-cred     | Username/app password |                                  |
| SonarQube     | sonar-token   | Secret text   | From SonarQube application         |
| Docker Hub    | docker-cred   | Secret text   | From your Docker Hub profile       |
| aws-cred      | awscreds      | Username/app password |     secret-key/access-key   |
| Slack         | slackcred   | Secret text   | From slack marketplace                |

Webhook example:  
`http://<jenkins-ip>:8080/sonarqube-webhook/`

---

## Jenkins Tools Configuration

- JDK [jdk17 , jdk21 ]
- SonarQube Scanner installations [sonar-scanner]
- Node [ node16 , node20 ]
- Dependency-Check installations [dp-check]

---

## Jenkins System Configuration

**SonarQube servers:**   
- Name: sonar-server  
- URL: http://sonar-ip-address:9000  
- Credentials: Add from Jenkins credentials

**Extended E-mail Notification:**
- SMTP server: smtp.gmail.com
- SMTP Port: 465
- Use SSL
- Default user e-mail suffix: @gmail.com

**E-mail Notification:**
- SMTP server: smtp.gmail.com
- Default user e-mail suffix: @gmail.com
- Use SMTP Authentication: Yes
- User Name: example@gmail.com
- Password: Use credentials
- Use TLS: Yes
- SMTP Port: 587
- Reply-To Address: example@gmail.com


**Slack Notification:**
- workspace name
- channel name [devsecopscicd]

---
# Now See the configuration pipeline of the Jenkins



## EKS ALB Ingress Kubernetes Setup Guide
# EKS cluster setup and  ALB Ingress Kubernetes Setup Guide

This guide covers the installation and setup for AWS CLI, `kubectl`, `eksctl`, and `helm`, and creating/configuring an EKS cluster with AWS Load Balancer Controller.

---

## 1. AWS CLI Installation

Refer: [AWS CLI Installation Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)

```bash
sudo apt install -y unzip
curl "https://awscli.amazonaws.com/awscli-exe-linux-x86_64.zip" -o "awscliv2.zip"
unzip awscliv2.zip
sudo ./aws/install
```

---

## 2. kubectl Installation

Refer: [kubectl Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)

```bash
sudo apt-get update
# apt-transport-https may be a dummy package; if so, you can skip that package
sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg

# If the folder `/etc/apt/keyrings` does not exist, it should be created before the curl command, read the note below.
# sudo mkdir -p -m 755 /etc/apt/keyrings
curl -fsSL https://pkgs.k8s.io/core:/stable:/v1.34/deb/Release.key | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/kubernetes-apt-keyring.gpg
sudo chmod 644 /etc/apt/keyrings/kubernetes-apt-keyring.gpg # allow unprivileged APT programs to read this keyring

# This overwrites any existing configuration in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
echo 'deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/kubernetes-apt-keyring.gpg] https://pkgs.k8s.io/core:/stable:/v1.34/deb/ /' | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
sudo chmod 644 /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list   # helps tools such as command-not-found to work correctly

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y kubectl bash-completion

# Enable kubectl auto-completion
echo 'source <(kubectl completion bash)' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'alias k=kubectl' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'complete -F __start_kubectl k' >> ~/.bashrc

# Apply changes immediately
source ~/.bashrc
```

---

## 3. eksctl Installation

Refer: [eksctl Installation Guide](https://eksctl.io/installation/)

```bash
# for ARM systems, set ARCH to: `arm64`, `armv6` or `armv7`
ARCH=amd64
PLATFORM=$(uname -s)_$ARCH

curl -sLO "https://github.com/eksctl-io/eksctl/releases/latest/download/eksctl_$PLATFORM.tar.gz"

# (Optional) Verify checksum
curl -sL "https://github.com/eksctl-io/eksctl/releases/latest/download/eksctl_checksums.txt" | grep $PLATFORM | sha256sum --check

tar -xzf eksctl_$PLATFORM.tar.gz -C /tmp && rm eksctl_$PLATFORM.tar.gz

sudo install -m 0755 /tmp/eksctl /usr/local/bin && rm /tmp/eksctl

# Install bash completion
sudo apt-get install -y bash-completion

# Enable eksctl auto-completion
echo 'source <(eksctl completion bash)' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'alias e=eksctl' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'complete -F __start_eksctl e' >> ~/.bashrc

# Apply changes immediately
source ~/.bashrc
```

---

## 4. Helm Installation

Refer: [Helm Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

```bash
sudo apt-get install curl gpg apt-transport-https --yes
curl -fsSL https://packages.buildkite.com/helm-linux/helm-debian/gpgkey | gpg --dearmor | sudo tee /usr/share/keyrings/helm.gpg > /dev/null
echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/helm.gpg] https://packages.buildkite.com/helm-linux/helm-debian/any/ any main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/helm-stable-debian.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install helm bash-completion

# Enable Helm auto-completion
echo 'source <(helm completion bash)' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'alias h=helm' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'complete -F __start_helm h' >> ~/.bashrc

# Apply changes immediately
source ~/.bashrc
```

---

## 5. AWS CLI Configuration

```bash
aws configure
aws configure list
```


---

## 6. Create EKS Cluster and Nodegroup (Try-This)

```bash
eksctl create cluster \
  --name my-cluster \
  --region ap-south-1 \
  --version 1.34 \
  --without-nodegroup

eksctl create nodegroup \
  --cluster my-cluster \
  --name my-nodes-ng \
  --nodes 3 \
  --nodes-min 3 \
  --nodes-max 6 \
  --node-type t3.medium
```

---

## 7. Update kubeconfig

```bash
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name my-cluster --region ap-south-1
```

---

## 8. Associate IAM OIDC Provider

```bash
eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --cluster my-cluster --approve
```

---

## 9. Create IAM Policy for AWS Load Balancer Controller

New policy link: [AWS EKS LBC Policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/lbc-manifest.html)

```bash
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller/v2.14.0/docs/install/iam_policy.json

aws iam create-policy \
  --policy-name AWSLoadBalancerControllerIAMPolicy \
  --policy-document file://iam_policy.json
```

---

## 10. Create IAM Service Account

Replace `<ACCOUNT_ID>` with your AWS account ID.

```bash
eksctl create iamserviceaccount \
  --cluster=my-cluster \
  --namespace=kube-system \
  --name=aws-load-balancer-controller \
  --attach-policy-arn=arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:policy/AWSLoadBalancerControllerIAMPolicy \
  --override-existing-serviceaccounts \
  --region ap-south-1 \
  --approve
```

---

## 11. Install AWS Load Balancer Controller via Helm

```bash
helm repo add eks https://aws.github.io/eks-charts
helm repo update eks

helm install aws-load-balancer-controller eks/aws-load-balancer-controller -n kube-system \
  --set clusterName=my-cluster \
  --set serviceAccount.create=false \
  --set serviceAccount.name=aws-load-balancer-controller \
  --set region=ap-south-1 \
  --version 1.13.3
```

**Optional:** List available versions:
```bash
helm search repo eks/aws-load-balancer-controller --versions
helm list -A
```

**Verify installation:**
```bash
kubectl get deployment -n kube-system aws-load-balancer-controller
```

---

## Monitor Kubernetes with Prometheus

**Install Node Exporter using Helm:**

```bash
helm repo add stable https://charts.helm.sh/stable
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm search repo prometheus-community
```

```bash
kubectl create namespace prometheus
```


```bash
helm install stable prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack -n prometheus
```

```bash
kubectl get pods -n prometheus
```

```bash
kubectl get svc -n prometheus
```

## Edit Prometheus Service
```bash
kubectl edit svc stable-kube-prometheus-sta-prometheus -n prometheus
```

## Edit Grafana Service
```bash
kubectl edit svc stable-grafana -n prometheus
```

```bash
kubectl get svc -n prometheus
```

## Grafana Login Details
|                                               |     |                                                                                                                        
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | 
| UserName | admin |
| Password  | prom-operator |

|                                               |     |                        
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | 
| Kubernetes Monitoring Dashboard | 12740 |
| Node Exporter | 1860 |
| Kubernetes / Views / Namespace | 15758 |

---
---

## Installing Argo CD on the eks cluster

  - Docs: https://www.eksworkshop.com/docs/automation/gitops/argocd/access_argocd
  - Docs: https://github.com/argoproj/argo-helm

# Argocd installation via helm chart

```bash
helm repo add argo https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm
helm repo update
```

```bash
kubectl create namespace argocd 
helm install argocd argo/argo-cd --namespace argocd
kubectl get all -n argocd 
kubectl patch svc argocd-server -n argocd -p '{"spec": {"type": "LoadBalancer"}}' 
```
# Another way to get the loadbalancer of the argocd alb url

```bash
sudo apt install jq -y

kubectl get svc argocd-server -n argocd -o json | jq --raw-output '.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].hostname'
```

Username: admin

```bash
kubectl -n argocd get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d
```
---
Password: encrypted-password
---


## If you have Domain Create the ACM Certificate

- Configure Route53
- Subdomain (Wild-card ACM)
- Attach the ingress

## OWASP ZAPROXY

[![Video Tutorial](https://github.com/harishnshetty/image-data-project/blob/d13e0ad9f2fc91499853cc8624b3c2d50f8f2e88/flipkart3.jpg)](https://youtu.be/KwKtMHBQXk4)


##  Delete EKS Cluster (Cleanup) finally u done a project 
 - For more conents reach out https://harishnshetty.github.io/projects.html

```bash
eksctl delete cluster --name my-cluster --region ap-south-1
```

- Delete the ECR Repo
- Jenkins IAM User
- Delete the EC2 instance
- Delete the Access key in the Admin Account
- Delete the Slack Token and Delete the Slack Channel
- Delete the gmail and Docket hub tokens
- Delete the Route53 and ACM

## Notes and Recommendations

- Replace `<VERSION>`, `<your-server-ip>`, and other placeholders with specific values for your setup.
- Prefer pinned versions for production environments rather than "latest".
- Consult each project's official documentation for the most up-to

Commit message:

Update project title in README.md

README.md, after:

# How to Implement Full DevSecOps + GitOps Pipeline on EKS | Flipkart Clone with Jenkins, Docker, Argo CD, SonarQube


## For more projects, check out  
[https://harishnshetty.github.io/projects.html](https://harishnshetty.github.io/projects.html)

[![Video Tutorial](https://github.com/harishnshetty/image-data-project/blob/d13e0ad9f2fc91499853cc8624b3c2d50f8f2e88/flipkart1.jpg)](https://youtu.be/KwKtMHBQXk4)


## Flipkart Clone Sample Image

[![Video Tutorial](https://github.com/harishnshetty/image-data-project/blob/d13e0ad9f2fc91499853cc8624b3c2d50f8f2e88/flipkart2.jpg)](https://youtu.be/KwKtMHBQXk4)

## Jenkins Setup
- Instance Type :- c5.xlarge  [4 Cpu 8Gb Ram ] 
- 30 GB EBS
- This guide assumes an Ubuntu/Debian-like environment and sudo privileges.

---

## Ports to Enable in Security Group

- Jenkins Security Group

| Service         | Port  |
|-----------------|-------|
| HTTP            | 80    |
| HTTPS           | 443   |
| SSH             | 22    | 
| Jenkins         |       |
| SonarQube       |       |


## System Update & Common Packages

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y

# Common tools
sudo apt install -y bash-completion wget git zip unzip curl jq net-tools build-essential ca-certificates apt-transport-https gnupg fontconfig
```
Reload bash completion if needed:
```bash
source /etc/bash_completion
```

**Install latest Git:**
```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:git-core/ppa
sudo apt update
sudo apt install git -y
```

---

## Java

Install OpenJDK (choose 17 or 21 depending on your needs):

```bash
# OpenJDK 17
sudo apt install -y openjdk-17-jdk

# OR OpenJDK 21
sudo apt install -y openjdk-21-jdk
```
Verify:
```bash
java --version
```

---

## Jenkins

Official docs: https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/installing/linux/

```bash
sudo wget -O /etc/apt/keyrings/jenkins-keyring.asc \
  https://pkg.jenkins.io/debian-stable/jenkins.io-2023.key
echo "deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/jenkins-keyring.asc]" \
  https://pkg.jenkins.io/debian-stable binary/ | sudo tee \
  /etc/apt/sources.list.d/jenkins.list > /dev/null

sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y jenkins
sudo systemctl enable --now jenkins
sudo systemctl start jenkins
sudo systemctl status jenkins
```
Initial admin password:
```bash
sudo cat /var/lib/jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword
```
Then open: http://your-server-ip:8080

**Note:** Jenkins requires a compatible Java runtime. Check the Jenkins documentation for supported Java versions.

---

## Docker

Official docs: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/

```bash
# Add Docker's official GPG key:
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ca-certificates curl
sudo install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings
sudo curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc
sudo chmod a+r /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc

# Add the repository to Apt sources:
echo \
  "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
  $(. /etc/os-release && echo "${UBUNTU_CODENAME:-$VERSION_CODENAME}") stable" | \
  sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null
sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install -y docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin

# Add user to docker group (log out / in or newgrp to apply)
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
newgrp docker
docker ps
```
--- 
Official docs: https://docs.docker.com/scout/install/


```bash
mkdir -p ~/.docker/cli-plugins
```
```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/docker/scout-cli/main/install.sh -o install-scout.sh
sh install-scout.sh
```
```bash
sudo cp ~/.docker/cli-plugins/docker-scout /usr/local/bin/docker-scout
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-scout
```

If Jenkins needs Docker access:
```bash
sudo usermod -aG docker jenkins
sudo systemctl restart jenkins
```
Check Docker status:
```bash
sudo systemctl status docker
```

## Jenkins Plugins to Install

- Eclipse Temurin installer Plugin
- Email Extension Plugin
- OWASP Dependency-Check Plugin
- Pipeline: Stage View Plugin
- SonarQube Scanner for Jenkins
- Nodejs
- Pipeline Utility Steps
- Slack Notification
- Amazon Web Services SDK :: All
- Amazon ECR
- Pipeline: AWS Steps
- Docker Pipeline
- CloudBees Docker Build and Publish

---
## SonarQube Docker Container Run for Analysis

sonarqube:25.10.0.114319-community

```bash
docker run -d --name sonarqube \
  -p 9000:9000 \
  -v sonarqube_data:/opt/sonarqube/data \
  -v sonarqube_logs:/opt/sonarqube/logs \
  -v sonarqube_extensions:/opt/sonarqube/extensions \
  sonarqube:25.9.0.112764-community
```
---



## Create the AWS Normal Account

- IAM account [jenkins]
- Policy [AmazonEC2ContainerRegistryFullAccess]
- Create the Security credentials.  [note it down one of the notepad]


## Create the Slack Account

- Create the Workspace
- Create the Channel
- Go to the Slack Markerplace [ Select the Jenkins CI ]
- Select the Channel Name
- Copy the Token
---


---

## Jenkins Credentials to Store

| Purpose       | ID            | Type          | Notes                               |
|---------------|---------------|---------------|-------------------------------------|
| Email         | mail-cred     | Username/app password |                                  |
| SonarQube     | sonar-token   | Secret text   | From SonarQube application         |
| Docker Hub    | docker-cred   | Secret text   | From your Docker Hub profile       |
| aws-cred      | awscreds      | Username/app password |     secret-key/access-key   |
| Slack         | slackcred   | Secret text   | From slack marketplace                |

Webhook example:  
`http://<jenkins-ip>:8080/sonarqube-webhook/`

---

## Jenkins Tools Configuration

- JDK [jdk17 , jdk21 ]
- SonarQube Scanner installations [sonar-scanner]
- Node [ node16 , node20 ]
- Dependency-Check installations [dp-check]

---

## Jenkins System Configuration

**SonarQube servers:**   
- Name: sonar-server  
- URL: http://sonar-ip-address:9000  
- Credentials: Add from Jenkins credentials

**Extended E-mail Notification:**
- SMTP server: smtp.gmail.com
- SMTP Port: 465
- Use SSL
- Default user e-mail suffix: @gmail.com

**E-mail Notification:**
- SMTP server: smtp.gmail.com
- Default user e-mail suffix: @gmail.com
- Use SMTP Authentication: Yes
- User Name: example@gmail.com
- Password: Use credentials
- Use TLS: Yes
- SMTP Port: 587
- Reply-To Address: example@gmail.com


**Slack Notification:**
- workspace name
- channel name [devsecopscicd]

---
# Now See the configuration pipeline of the Jenkins



## EKS ALB Ingress Kubernetes Setup Guide
# EKS cluster setup and  ALB Ingress Kubernetes Setup Guide

This guide covers the installation and setup for AWS CLI, `kubectl`, `eksctl`, and `helm`, and creating/configuring an EKS cluster with AWS Load Balancer Controller.

---

## 1. AWS CLI Installation

Refer: [AWS CLI Installation Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)

```bash
sudo apt install -y unzip
curl "https://awscli.amazonaws.com/awscli-exe-linux-x86_64.zip" -o "awscliv2.zip"
unzip awscliv2.zip
sudo ./aws/install
```

---

## 2. kubectl Installation

Refer: [kubectl Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)

```bash
sudo apt-get update
# apt-transport-https may be a dummy package; if so, you can skip that package
sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg

# If the folder `/etc/apt/keyrings` does not exist, it should be created before the curl command, read the note below.
# sudo mkdir -p -m 755 /etc/apt/keyrings
curl -fsSL https://pkgs.k8s.io/core:/stable:/v1.34/deb/Release.key | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/kubernetes-apt-keyring.gpg
sudo chmod 644 /etc/apt/keyrings/kubernetes-apt-keyring.gpg # allow unprivileged APT programs to read this keyring

# This overwrites any existing configuration in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
echo 'deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/kubernetes-apt-keyring.gpg] https://pkgs.k8s.io/core:/stable:/v1.34/deb/ /' | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
sudo chmod 644 /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list   # helps tools such as command-not-found to work correctly

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y kubectl bash-completion

# Enable kubectl auto-completion
echo 'source <(kubectl completion bash)' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'alias k=kubectl' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'complete -F __start_kubectl k' >> ~/.bashrc

# Apply changes immediately
source ~/.bashrc
```

---

## 3. eksctl Installation

Refer: [eksctl Installation Guide](https://eksctl.io/installation/)

```bash
# for ARM systems, set ARCH to: `arm64`, `armv6` or `armv7`
ARCH=amd64
PLATFORM=$(uname -s)_$ARCH

curl -sLO "https://github.com/eksctl-io/eksctl/releases/latest/download/eksctl_$PLATFORM.tar.gz"

# (Optional) Verify checksum
curl -sL "https://github.com/eksctl-io/eksctl/releases/latest/download/eksctl_checksums.txt" | grep $PLATFORM | sha256sum --check

tar -xzf eksctl_$PLATFORM.tar.gz -C /tmp && rm eksctl_$PLATFORM.tar.gz

sudo install -m 0755 /tmp/eksctl /usr/local/bin && rm /tmp/eksctl

# Install bash completion
sudo apt-get install -y bash-completion

# Enable eksctl auto-completion
echo 'source <(eksctl completion bash)' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'alias e=eksctl' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'complete -F __start_eksctl e' >> ~/.bashrc

# Apply changes immediately
source ~/.bashrc
```

---

## 4. Helm Installation

Refer: [Helm Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

```bash
sudo apt-get install curl gpg apt-transport-https --yes
curl -fsSL https://packages.buildkite.com/helm-linux/helm-debian/gpgkey | gpg --dearmor | sudo tee /usr/share/keyrings/helm.gpg > /dev/null
echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/helm.gpg] https://packages.buildkite.com/helm-linux/helm-debian/any/ any main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/helm-stable-debian.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install helm bash-completion

# Enable Helm auto-completion
echo 'source <(helm completion bash)' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'alias h=helm' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'complete -F __start_helm h' >> ~/.bashrc

# Apply changes immediately
source ~/.bashrc
```

---

## 5. AWS CLI Configuration

```bash
aws configure
aws configure list
```


---

## 6. Create EKS Cluster and Nodegroup (Try-This)

```bash
eksctl create cluster \
  --name my-cluster \
  --region ap-south-1 \
  --version 1.34 \
  --without-nodegroup

eksctl create nodegroup \
  --cluster my-cluster \
  --name my-nodes-ng \
  --nodes 3 \
  --nodes-min 3 \
  --nodes-max 6 \
  --node-type t3.medium
```

---

## 7. Update kubeconfig

```bash
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name my-cluster --region ap-south-1
```

---

## 8. Associate IAM OIDC Provider

```bash
eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --cluster my-cluster --approve
```

---

## 9. Create IAM Policy for AWS Load Balancer Controller

New policy link: [AWS EKS LBC Policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/lbc-manifest.html)

```bash
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-load-balancer-controller/v2.14.0/docs/install/iam_policy.json

aws iam create-policy \
  --policy-name AWSLoadBalancerControllerIAMPolicy \
  --policy-document file://iam_policy.json
```

---

## 10. Create IAM Service Account

Replace `<ACCOUNT_ID>` with your AWS account ID.

```bash
eksctl create iamserviceaccount \
  --cluster=my-cluster \
  --namespace=kube-system \
  --name=aws-load-balancer-controller \
  --attach-policy-arn=arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:policy/AWSLoadBalancerControllerIAMPolicy \
  --override-existing-serviceaccounts \
  --region ap-south-1 \
  --approve
```

---

## 11. Install AWS Load Balancer Controller via Helm

```bash
helm repo add eks https://aws.github.io/eks-charts
helm repo update eks

helm install aws-load-balancer-controller eks/aws-load-balancer-controller -n kube-system \
  --set clusterName=my-cluster \
  --set serviceAccount.create=false \
  --set serviceAccount.name=aws-load-balancer-controller \
  --set region=ap-south-1 \
  --version 1.13.3
```

**Optional:** List available versions:
```bash
helm search repo eks/aws-load-balancer-controller --versions
helm list -A
```

**Verify installation:**
```bash
kubectl get deployment -n kube-system aws-load-balancer-controller
```

---

## Monitor Kubernetes with Prometheus

**Install Node Exporter using Helm:**

```bash
helm repo add stable https://charts.helm.sh/stable
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm search repo prometheus-community
```

```bash
kubectl create namespace prometheus
```


```bash
helm install stable prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack -n prometheus
```

```bash
kubectl get pods -n prometheus
```

```bash
kubectl get svc -n prometheus
```

## Edit Prometheus Service
```bash
kubectl edit svc stable-kube-prometheus-sta-prometheus -n prometheus
```

## Edit Grafana Service
```bash
kubectl edit svc stable-grafana -n prometheus
```

```bash
kubectl get svc -n prometheus
```

## Grafana Login Details
|                                               |     |                                                                                                                        
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | 
| UserName | admin |
| Password  | prom-operator |

|                                               |     |                        
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | 
| Kubernetes Monitoring Dashboard | 12740 |
| Node Exporter | 1860 |
| Kubernetes / Views / Namespace | 15758 |

---
---

## Installing Argo CD on the eks cluster

  - Docs: https://www.eksworkshop.com/docs/automation/gitops/argocd/access_argocd
  - Docs: https://github.com/argoproj/argo-helm

# Argocd installation via helm chart

```bash
helm repo add argo https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm
helm repo update
```

```bash
kubectl create namespace argocd 
helm install argocd argo/argo-cd --namespace argocd
kubectl get all -n argocd 
kubectl patch svc argocd-server -n argocd -p '{"spec": {"type": "LoadBalancer"}}' 
```
# Another way to get the loadbalancer of the argocd alb url

```bash
sudo apt install jq -y

kubectl get svc argocd-server -n argocd -o json | jq --raw-output '.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].hostname'
```

Username: admin

```bash
kubectl -n argocd get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d
```
---
Password: encrypted-password
---


## If you have Domain Create the ACM Certificate

- Configure Route53
- Subdomain (Wild-card ACM)
- Attach the ingress

## OWASP ZAPROXY

[![Video Tutorial](https://github.com/harishnshetty/image-data-project/blob/d13e0ad9f2fc91499853cc8624b3c2d50f8f2e88/flipkart3.jpg)](https://youtu.be/KwKtMHBQXk4)


##  Delete EKS Cluster (Cleanup) finally u done a project 
 - For more conents reach out https://harishnshetty.github.io/projects.html

```bash
eksctl delete cluster --name my-cluster --region ap-south-1
```

- Delete the ECR Repo
- Jenkins IAM User
- Delete the EC2 instance
- Delete the Access key in the Admin Account
- Delete the Slack Token and Delete the Slack Channel
- Delete the gmail and Docket hub tokens
- Delete the Route53 and ACM

## Notes and Recommendations

- Replace `<VERSION>`, `<your-server-ip>`, and other placeholders with specific values for your setup.
- Prefer pinned versions for production environments rather than "latest".
- Consult each project's official documentation for the most up-to
